h1. Learning LISP

A sandbox project used by Jason Brownlee to learn ANSI Common LISP.

h2. Objectives

* To become competent enough in ANSI Common LISP to be able to exploit it for ad hoc software development projects.
* Explore some espoused and advanced features, such as:
** macros
** dynamic code rewriting

h2. Programs

none yet 

h2. References

h3. Core References

* "The Common Lisp Cookbook":http://cl-cookbook.sourceforge.net/ how to get simple things done
* "Practical Common Lisp":http://gigamonkeys.com/book/ whole book online 2005 (I might buy this)
* "ANSI Common LISP":http://www.amazon.com/ANSI-Common-LISP-Paul-Graham/dp/0133708756/ 1995 by pg (I might buy this)
* "Common Lisp the Language, 2nd Edition":http://www.cs.cmu.edu/Groups/AI/html/cltl/clm/node1.html full text

h3. Second Order References (for when I get better)

* "Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs":http://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/ programming fundamentals with LISP - full text online (I might buy this)
* "On Lisp":http://www.paulgraham.com/onlisptext.html pg's book - full text, _the_ book for advanced topics
* "Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming: Case Studies in Common Lisp":http://norvig.com/paip.html doing AI with LISP by Norvig

h3. Reference Lists

* "pg's LISP page":http://www.paulgraham.com/lisp.html interesting articles and useful links
* "lispmachine":http://www.lispmachine.net/ This is a collection of Lisp / Scheme books and online resources.
* "Planet Lisp":http://planet.lisp.org/ blog
* "the common lisp wiki":http://www.cliki.net/

h3. General

* "Association of Lisp Users":http://www.lisp.org seminal, ugly site 
* "Wikipedia: Common Lisp":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Lisp  
* "Common Lisp on Mac OS X":http://www.newartisans.com/2007/10/common-lisp-on-mac-os-x.html (2007) guide to installing emacs and "Steel Bank Common Lisp":http://www.sbcl.org/ (SBCL) on mac
* "Lisp bundle for Textmate":http://zoetrope.speakermouth.com/2008/4/9/lisp-bundle-for-textmate
* "GNU CLISP":http://www.clisp.org/ an ansi common lisp that will work everywhere 
* "Everything You Need To Get Started With Common Lisp":http://www.jakevoytko.com/blog/2008/12/29/everything-you-need-to-get-started-with-common-lisp/ (2008) a detailed guide
* "ASDF-Install":http://www.cliki.net/ASDF-Install a development application for downloading and installing lisp packages
* "SLIME: The Superior Lisp Interaction Mode for Emacs":http://common-lisp.net/project/slime/ a Emacs mode for Common Lisp development
* "Emacs Cheat Sheet":http://ccrma.stanford.edu/guides/package/emacs/emacs.html

h3. Stories

* "Lisping at JPL":http://www.flownet.com/gat/jpl-lisp.html the rise and fall of Lisp at the Jet Propulsion Lab by Ron Garret

h3. Videos

* "Practical Common Lisp":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VeAdryYZ7ak google tech talk by Peter Seibel (May 2006)
* "Lisp for High-Performance Transaction Processing":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xquJvmHF3S8 google tech talk by Daniel L. Weinreb (August 2009)


h2. License

(The MIT License)

Copyright © 2009 Jason Brownlee

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.